A vector store is a system designed to store and retrieve data represented as numerical
vectors

key features 

1. storage - Ensures that vectors and their associated metadata are retained, whether in- memory
             for quick lookups or on disk for durability and large scale use.

2. similarity search - helps retrieve the vectors most similar to a query vector

3. Indexing - Provide a data structure or method that enables fast similarity searches on 
              high dimensional ectors

4. CRUD Operations- Manage the lifecycle of data adding new vectors, readinig them and updating 
                    the existing entries , removing the outdated vectors 
        

usecase 
1. sematic search
2. RAG
3. Recommender system
4. image/multimedia search

Indexing - let say there are 10 lakh vector embeddings stored in the database 
now the user query comes and we need to calculate the similarity score of that 
query with the vecotrs stored in the database which is computationally complex 
thing to do, so instead of doing that what we can do is we take the 10 lakh 
vectors and we from cluster using some clustering algorithm so we create 10
clusters where each cluster represent 1 lakh vectors so we take the mean of those
cluster formed so 10 clusters are formed which will create 10 means across the
each cluster and now we compare the query with the means, if some mean is showing 
more similarity with the query then we ignore all the other clusters so we are 
directly ignoring all the 9 lakh vectors and we are working with 1 lakh records 
only 


vector store vs vector databases

1. vector store

typically referes to a lightweight library or service that focuses on storing vectors and performing
similarity search

may not include many traditional database features like transactions, rich query languages
or role base access control

ideal for prototyping, smaller scale applications 

eg : FAISS (where you store vectors and can query them by similarity but you handle persistence and scaling seperately)


2. vector databases

a full fledged database system designed to store and query vectors

offers additional 'database like' features
1. distributed architecture
2. durability and persistance
3. ACID Transactions
4. Authentication and authorization 

eg : quadrant , pinecone 



Vector store in langchain

supported stores - Langchain integrates with multiple vector stores (FAISS, Pine cone , chroma , qdrant)
                   giving a flexibility in scale features and deployments 

eg: from_documents(...) or from_texts(...)
    add_documents(...) or add_texts(...)
    similarity_search(query , k =)





------------------------------------------------


chroma vector store

chroma is a lightweight opensource vector database that is especially friendly for local 
development and small to medium scale production needs

chroma tenancy and DB heirarchy




 Tenant
│
├── Database
│   │
│   ├── Collection
│   │   │
│   │   ├── Record 1
│   │   │   ├── id
│   │   │   ├── document
│   │   │   ├── embedding
│   │   │   └── metadata
│   │   │
│   │   ├── Record 2
│   │   │   ├── id
│   │   │   ├── document
│   │   │   ├── embedding
│   │   │   └── metadata
│   │   │
│   │   └── Record 3
│   │       ├── id
│   │       ├── document
│   │       ├── embedding
│   │       └── metadata

Tenant      = top-level workspace/user/organization
Database    = logical group of collections
Collection  = group of vector records or tables in rdbms
Record      = one stored item containing id, text/document, embedding, and metadata